Greetings!
This is JW Broadcasting®
for January 2025.
In last month’s broadcast, we shared
Part 1 of the 2024 annual meeting.
It included uplifting talks and videos.
And there is more to share!
Please enjoy Part 2 of the annual meeting.
The next part of our program relates
to the remarkable response we’ve seen
to Jehovah’s mercy
expressed to those who had been
removed from the congregation.
It’s a video entitled
Blessings of Jehovah’s Mercy.
Please enjoy.
The Governing Body
has prayerfully considered
how Jehovah’s mercy
could be better reflected
when dealing with wrongdoers
in the congregation.
In his love, Jehovah wants sinners
to become reconciled to him
if at all possible.
He doesn’t want anyone to be destroyed,
so he appeals to them to repent.
And we see these pictures,
you know, these illustrations
(might be a drawing or something),
that show a shepherd
going after that one lost sheep.
And you think: ‘That’s really nice.
You know, in concept, oh, that’s good.’
But it’s not just an academic concept.
It’s reality.
The fact that He loves people in this way,
even those who’ve been removed
from the congregation,
just gives me an opportunity
to reflect that same love that Jehovah has
and extend that to others as well.
The elders in our circuit
promptly responded to the adjustments.
Once they heard the update
and we got the printed direction,
the brothers promptly met together.
With the fellow elders,
we all discussed how we can help
all these ones in our territory
who have been removed
from the congregation,
and we visited them.
They were grateful
that they were not forgotten;
they’re still remembered.
It’s heartwarming to hear reports
of how Jehovah has blessed
congregation elders
as they search for those
who have been removed from the congregation.
For example, in the first four months
after the 2024 Governing Body Update #2,
in the South Africa and Philippines
branch territories combined,
more than 1,200
have come back to the congregation.
Here in the United States branch territory,
over 5,000 brothers and sisters
have been welcomed back.
In the Brazil branch territory,
some 5,200 publishers
have been reinstated.
And in the Central America branch territory,
over 5,300 individuals
have come back to the congregation.
The numbers are exciting,
but we can’t overlook
that each of these dear ones
have returned to Jehovah,
and Jehovah loves them!
One man came to mind
because he’s deaf and blind
and he’d been away from Jehovah for 45 years.
We prayed with him.
We asked him where he was with things,
and he said: “I want to be back.
I want to be back in the family.”
That’s what he said.
He’s been studying regularly
and attending the meetings ever since then,
and he was reinstated about a month later.
So when I tactile signed
that announcement for him that night, I said:
“You’re back in the family.
You’re one of Jehovah’s Witnesses again.”
And he was just overjoyed at that.
There is a pioneer sister in our circuit
who was asked to conduct a study
with a young mom
who’s trying to make her way back to Jehovah.
She was so excited after the first study.
She said that first study went so well.
It seems like everyone in the congregation
is very happy
just to have this arrangement in place.
A sister told me that it made her so happy
to see that young mom
who’s studying smiling again.
She hadn’t seen it in a long time.
And one experience that is exciting
is that there’s this man
who’s been removed for over 30 years,
but he started coming
to the meetings early this year,
and he would sit at the back
and not talk to anyone.
But eventually, after this arrangement
had been made available,
when we visited him, he was so excited
because he said, “I didn’t know what to do
to come back to the congregation.”
And here we are visiting him.
And he says he felt like a heavy weight
has been lifted off his shoulders.
And he has been reinstated.
A young man
whom I studied the Bible with
came into the truth under great difficulty,
and so we thought of him immediately.
And right away, I sent him a message,
because I still had
his phone number, and said,
“Please watch this Governing Body update.”
Then I sent him the link.
Well, the next day,
I received a reply to this message,
and there was a photo of a letter
that he had written
to the congregation’s body of elders,
asking to be reinstated.
I wrote back very excitedly and said,
“Have you actually watched the update?”
And he said, “Yes, since yesterday,
I’ve watched this update six times.”
Well, of course,
our hearts were absolutely overflowing,
but it was even—
We were even happier
when about a month later,
he was writing us to say,
“I have finally been reinstated.”
A sister who was asked
to conduct a study with a person says,
“It’s the greatest gift I’ve ever gotten
—to study with someone
who has been removed from the congregation.”
So her experience of crying with her,
telling her that she liked her bag,
and the student saying,
“I bought this bag years ago
so I could go out in service
when I got ready, when I was reinstated”
showed her that she had
been trying for a long time to come back
but just did not know how.
And so the student now realizes that
that is Jehovah who is helping her,
and she feels grateful
to be helped to come back.
Sitting in on that Bible study
with someone who was removed
from the congregation
and seeing the benefit
helped me to see
the depth of Jehovah’s mercy,
because this young man
has been removed from the congregation
for nine years
and he has wanted
to come back, he mentioned,
but he just didn’t have the strength
to make steps to come back.
One person had been removed
from the congregation
some 17 years ago,
and on his own,
he was watching JW Broadcasting®.
He saw the update.
He said, “This is— It’s time to come home.”
And so he called the Kingdom Hall,
he left a voicemail,
and the brothers
received his message.
They reached right out to him.
A Bible study was started,
and very happily he too has progressed
to being reinstated.
And his parents were able to fly in
and be there at the Kingdom Hall
that night he was reinstated.
He later said, “This is truly a homecoming.”
I feel like it helps us to see
another side of Jehovah
as our Father.
And you see
how much he loves his children.
And then he allows us to have a part
in helping them to come back to him.
And so we get to reflect his mercy too;
it’s such a privilege.
Back in 1979, my father was removed
from the congregation
and I was eight.
You can grow up thinking,
‘OK, maybe, you know,
my dad will come back.’
And a decade goes by,
two decades go by, three decades go by.
And you don’t want to lose hope,
but it does tend to make you think
that maybe this person
might not ever come back.
I get a phone call.
And it’s a friend of mine
I’ve known for many years.
He and another brother
went to go see my dad,
and he even accepted a study.
At this point, I said, “Wow!”
I said, “That’s—
That’s—That’s great,”
because most of my childhood
and my entire adult life,
I have not known a father
who was serving Jehovah.
You should never ever underestimate
the lengths Jehovah will go
to save one sheep,
one sheep.
So, yeah, it’s—
Yeah, it’s—
If you weren’t a believer
in Jehovah’s mercy before—
No one will ever be able to say,
when everything is over
in this system of things,
that Jehovah didn’t care enough,
he didn’t make the efforts,
and he didn’t send anybody out.
Yeah, you can’t—
You really can’t say that
because Jehovah is making sure
that the extra effort was made.
It’s very touching indeed.
But it wasn’t just a one-time invitation.
In imitation of our Father, Jehovah,
the elders continue
to try to render assistance to those
who have been removed from the congregation.
They continue to reach out to them.
But Jehovah is more than just a God of mercy.
What’s the connection with his righteousness
and his justice?
Brother Kenneth Cook
will now discuss the theme
“Help to Tear Down and Build Up.”
Well, we certainly have learned much
during the past few years
regarding Jehovah’s mercy, haven’t we?
In fact, even just today we’ve highlighted
how we now have
a broader understanding of Jehovah’s mercy
during the great tribulation.
The May 2024 Watchtower  stated this:
“Even after the great tribulation starts,
“it is possible that some who see
the destruction of ‘Babylon the Great’
“will recall that Jehovah’s Witnesses
“had long spoken of this event.
Might some who see these events
have a change of heart?”
(End of quote)
Well, it could be.
And if so, we’ll be happy for them, won’t we?
Then there’s Jehovah’s mercy
in welcoming repentant ones
back into the congregation again.
We’ve been highlighting this and properly so.
What a beautiful thing!
The August 2024 Watchtower  stated:
“Jehovah does not condone
unrepentant wrongdoing.
“However, he does not turn his back
on wrongdoers.
“He wants them to return.
“Jehovah’s feelings
toward repentant wrongdoers
are expressed at Hosea 14:4.”
And he says toward such repentant ones,
here as quoted in the article:
“I will heal their unfaithfulness.
“I will love them of my own free will,
because my anger has turned away.”
The article continued:
“What a strong incentive for elders
“to respond to any signs of repentance.
“And what a strong incentive
for those who have left Jehovah
to return without delay.”
(End of quote)
Well, throughout the Scriptures,
we see Jehovah’s warm appeal to wrongdoers,
urging them to repent.
At Zechariah 1:3,
we read that Jehovah told his prophet:
“Say to them, ‘This is what
Jehovah of armies says:
“‘“Return to me,” declares Jehovah of armies,
“and I will return to you.”’”
But does our increased understanding
of Jehovah’s mercy here
mean that his righteous and just standards
have somehow been changed?
Also, in line with our theme,
what things should we properly tear down
and what things
should we desire to build up?
According to Ecclesiastes 3:3,
it’s Scriptural to do both as needed.
Along with the opening comment
from verse 1,
verse 3 reads in part:
“There is an appointed time
for everything, . . .
a time to tear down and a time to build up.”
So, then, to answer our questions,
let’s examine Jehovah’s love
of righteousness,
justice, and mercy.
At Psalm 33:5, the inspired writer highlights
that Jehovah
“loves righteousness and justice.”
Also, Jesus’ words recorded
at Matthew 9:13 highlight
that ‘Jehovah wants mercy, not sacrifice.’
Since Jehovah loves
each of these qualities,
how does he balance
what he righteously chooses to tear down
with what he mercifully
chooses to build up?
He does so by knowing
how these qualities work together.
Now, some things just go together.
Let’s just make it everyday real life.
To illustrate: For some people,
an ice cream sundae
is not complete
unless it includes chocolate sauce,
whipped cream, sprinkles, and what else?
The cherry on top, right?
The combination is what defines it.
Well, far more importantly,
on a spiritual level,
our love of righteousness
and our acts of justice
must include mercy whenever possible.
Jehovah requires that we uphold
all of his righteous standards.
So to answer a question from earlier,
James 1:17 tells us
that Jehovah “does not vary or change.”
And quoting Jehovah himself,
Malachi 3:6 says:
“I am Jehovah; I do not change.”
So, then, Jehovah doesn’t change,
and his standards
as to what is right and wrong
have not changed.
That is why recent adjustments
to our view of God’s mercy are just that
—adjustments to our view
or understanding.
Have you been able to adjust?
Jesus too loves righteousness,
justice, and mercy.
And like his Father, he does not change.
Hebrews 13:8 says of Jesus
that he “is the same yesterday
and today, and forever.”
This means that what Jesus did
while he was on earth
teaches us about his thinking now, right now.
For example, Jesus displayed intense love
for righteousness and justice
by driving out the money changers
from the temple area on two occasions.
The money changers
were extorting the people,
and they were turning Jehovah’s house
into a house of commerce,
and Jesus hated that.
He hated it.
Jesus’ zeal for what is right
moved him to act,
and in doing so, he also demonstrated
his merciful concern for the people.
Above all, we see in such actions
the love that Jesus has
for the pure worship of his Father.
And because Jesus doesn’t change,
he still has the same desire
to drive out what is bad.
As the wickedness of this world increases,
we know that Jehovah and his Son
will always do what is right,
what is just, and what is merciful.
At Exodus 34:6, 7,
we find a summary
of Jehovah’s balanced qualities.
Now, it reads in part:
“Jehovah, Jehovah,
a God merciful and compassionate,
“slow to anger and abundant
in loyal love and truth,
“showing loyal love to thousands,
“pardoning error and transgression and sin,
but he will by no means
leave the guilty unpunished.”
Well, knowing that Jehovah
“will by no means
leave the guilty unpunished,”
what things should we, then,
help to tear down
or send away from the congregations?
At the same time,
knowing that Jehovah is “merciful
and compassionate” as stated there,
what things should we, then, help to build up
and welcome back into the congregation?
We’ll look at an interesting account
in Zechariah chapter 5
as well as some other accounts
and find some answers.
As we do, look for the lessons
that we can apply
to our efforts to show
righteousness, justice, and mercy.
So, then, first of all,
what should we tear down and send out?
The concept of tearing down
is not difficult to see
when we think of it in terms of a building.
Some houses are just beyond repair,
and for this reason, they must be torn down.
The house in this illustration
makes that point, doesn’t it?
I don’t think you’re going to fix that one.
Have that in mind as we consider
what Zechariah saw.
Now, Zechariah was a prophet
who was favored with seeing
some amazing God-given visions.
And what he said describes real conditions
that existed in Israel at the time.
At Zechariah 5:2,
we read that an angel asks Zechariah:
“What do you see?”
Zechariah replies that he sees
a very large “flying scroll,” depicted here.
The flying scroll is written on both sides
and contains a curse that tears down
the houses of wickedness,
leaving evil exposed.
One side of the scroll
targets those who steal.
The other side targets those
who lie or who make false oaths.
After the house is consumed, or torn down,
he next sees an ephah container.
It contains a figurative woman
referred to as “Wickedness,”
who is trying to escape.
She is exposed,
and the angel treats her appropriately
by throwing her back into the container
and thrusting a heavy lead weight over it.
The container with Wickedness
is then removed from the land
—exposed, restrained, removed.
The angel’s actions leave no doubt
about how Jehovah views such things.
What lessons can we take away
from the vision?
Well, first we see that Jehovah
does not tolerate wickedness,
such as lying and stealing.
We find Scriptural examples of this
in how Jehovah dealt with greedy Achan
or what happened
with Ananias and Sapphira.
We know those accounts, don’t we?
God’s Word lists many things
that Jehovah does not tolerate.
For instance,
Proverbs 6:16-19
speaks of Jehovah’s hatred
for ‘a lying tongue,
‘hands that shed innocent blood,
‘a heart plotting wicked schemes,
or a false witness who lies
with every breath,’ and so forth.
And Revelation 21:8
speaks of everlasting destruction
for those who unrepentantly practice
what is immoral.
Well, next we learn from Zechariah’s vision
that Jehovah uses his faithful angels
to expose wickedness.
The lesson?
Treat wickedness
like Jehovah and his faithful angels do
by tearing it down, exposing it,
and removing it from the congregation
—expose and remove.
We do not want
the conduct of unrepentant ones
to take up residence in our congregations.
That is why since sin is still on the earth,
the elders will continue to remove
unrepentant ones from the congregation.
Nevertheless, while there are things
that we must send out
from the congregation,
whom must we help to build up
and welcome back into the congregation?
When wrongdoing
is removed from among Jehovah’s people
and they are united together
in clean and pure worship,
Jehovah sees this
and his people are blessed.
Malachi 3:16 tells us
that he is ‘paying attention
and he is listening
to those who properly fear him.’
He places their names
in his “book of remembrance.”
What a privilege!
Even so, to keep his blessing,
we must also imitate his mercy
and remain ready
to welcome back repentant ones.
Like the concept of tearing down,
the concept of building up
is not difficult to picture
when you think of it in terms of a building.
Now, some houses are in bad shape,
but they are not beyond repair,
like the one we saw earlier.
They can be restored,
as illustrated on screen.
It’s in bad shape, but look at that.
It can be fixed up.
With that in mind,
when it comes to welcoming back
and building up repentant ones,
we are helped to do this
when we imitate Jesus
and the faithful angels.
They have not only witnessed
Jehovah’s mercy from the start,
but they have developed
this quality themselves.
Here is what we mean:
When humans were first created,
mercy was not needed
because humans were perfect.
Only after the rebellion,
when the first imperfect child was born,
did this aspect of Jehovah’s love
and compassion become evident.
Jesus and the angels
witnessed Jehovah’s great love in action
when he extended mercy
to humans who were born in sin.
In turn, these faithful angels
imitated their heavenly Father
and showed mercy in helping to build up
repentant ones on earth.
For example, Jesus showed mercy to Peter
—didn’t he?—
and also to the woman
who poured perfumed oil on his feet.
Jesus used powerful illustrations
to help us understand
the depth of God’s mercy
—just read the parable
of the lost son who returned.
Luke chapter 15
makes the point, doesn’t it?
So like Jesus and the faithful angels,
we desire to imitate
Jehovah’s precious qualities—all of them.
That is why we seek to welcome back
and build up repentant ones.
We do this in harmony with the direction
that the congregations have received.
Now, regarding this direction,
one person who was removed
from the congregation
wrote to the Governing Body,
and this is what he said:
“The fact that friends can now say a simple,
“heartfelt greeting blows my mind.
“I have felt like a walking plague,
walking into the Kingdom Hall,
“as many friends avoided eye contact
and would clear out of the way.
“But I get it;
“that was our understanding
up until that time.
“Jehovah is an amazing
one and only true God.
“His love is always being manifested
as in this case
“to direct you brothers
to announce this new arrangement.
I look forward to receiving
a visit from the elders.”
Well, what a fine expression that was!
Things do change over time.
But like that repentant one, he gets it.
And see, we get it.
Jehovah is helping us
to understand why these changes come.
And we comply, and we love it.
As we have considered,
Jehovah’s qualities of love and mercy,
though, have not changed,
but our understanding
of his marvelous qualities,
well, this has improved.
Each of us must work to learn
the depth of his love and mercy
and then show
the depth of these things ourselves.
At the same time,
Jehovah’s standards of righteousness
and justice have not changed.
Each of us must work to uphold
his standards of right and wrong.
Like the angel in Zechariah’s prophecy,
the elders today
must protect Jehovah’s people
by exposing, restraining, and sending out
what is bad from the congregation.
So in summary,
while we do not hesitate
to tear down wickedness and send it away,
we desire to do all that we can
to bring back and build up those
who return to Jehovah.
Thank you, Brother Ken.
What a beautiful talk illustrating
Jehovah’s mercy
and love yet also his justice
and righteousness!
May we all continue to work hard
to reflect those qualities in our life.
Now, earlier in our program,
we saw a trailer for the video
Become Jehovah’s Friend
—The Greatest Act of Love,
and it ended with the words “Coming Soon.”
Well, soon has arrived.
Let’s now enjoy—
Let’s now enjoy the full-length epic episode
Become Jehovah’s Friend
—The Greatest Act of Love.
Oh!
Here you go.
Thanks!
Hey, soon we’re having the Memorial,
and you have to come!
It’s the most important event.
This invite is for you and your mom.
I can tell you more about it at our study.
OK, thanks.
Bye!
See you later, Sophia!
That’s right, Camille.
OK, let’s move on to the next paragraph.
Do you mind reading?
OK, sure.
“Many people hope for good things to happen,
but they cannot be sure
that their hope . . .”
OK.
Now it’s your turn!
Hmm.
Life was perfect.
Adam and Eve disobeyed Jehovah.
They lost their perfect life and died.
Right!
After that, nobody was perfect,
so everyone would grow old and die.
Jesus came to earth
and taught everyone about Jehovah.
He gave his life.
He died for us.
That’s right, so that in the future
nobody will have to die.
Has anybody ever given you a special gift?
Hmm.
Why do you think they gave it to you?
Because she loved me.
Right!
Jehovah and Jesus gave us the greatest gift.
It cost a lot.
But they gave it to us because they love us
and they want us to live forever.
But what about my grandma?
Their gift is for her too!
There’s somebody in the Bible
I would like you to meet.
She’s a lot like you.
Luke chapter 7.
She lived in a city called Nain.
She had a husband
and a son.
But then her husband died.
She still had her son to keep her company.
But then her son died too.
They both died?
She was already a widow,
and now she was all alone.
The day of the funeral,
Jesus came to Nain
and he saw the widow.
Stop weeping.
Young man, I say to you, get up!
Wow!
Why do you think Jesus
brought him back to life?
Hmm.
Because he loved them.
Yeah!
He loves all of us.
He loves you.
That’s why he died for us.
Jehovah brought Jesus back to life.
Soon, Jesus will resurrect people,
and because he died for us,
we can all live forever!
It’s the greatest gift anyone could give us.
When we go to the Memorial,
it’s a way to say thank you.
Hmm.
I hope my mom wants to come too.
Mom!
Hi, baby.
Should we get ready for the Memorial?
Oh, honey.
It was a long day.
I’m so sorry.
I don’t think we can make it.
“Can’t wait to see you tonight.
Let us know if you need a ride.”
It’s Sophia’s mom.
Mom, we can do this!
Let’s do it!
Yay!
Mommy?
Yes, my little princess?
I’m glad you’re studying the Bible.
Me too.
At this time,
we’ll have the passing of the wine.
As we all go home tonight,
think about what Jesus’ sacrifice
means to you.
Wow!
Mom!
Come with me.
Zoe,
turn around.
Zoe!
Grandma?
It’s you!
My baby girl!
I missed you.
Grandma is here now.
Jehovah has shown love in many ways.
But when he gave Jesus’ life for us,
that was the greatest act of love.
It’s remarkable how
even Caleb and Sophia videos
can touch our emotions.
That was not brought to you
by artificial intelligence, just so you know.
Our brothers and sisters, dear brothers
and sisters, in Audio/Video Services
devoted thousands of hours.
We wish to express thanks to them.
And, of course, we express thanks to Jehovah
for this touching video portrayal.
Brother Steve,
I think part of that applause was for you.
The next part of our program relates
to the cherished hope of living forever.
Brother Lett has been
experiencing a little bit of back pain,
but he is improving,
so he just wanted us to relate that
before his next talk.
But he will discuss the theme
“Everlasting Life! Possible? Boring?”
Brother Lett, you have our attention.
The good news that we preach
has many facets, many aspects,
like a gorgeous, multifaceted diamond.
But now, what is one facet
that we especially enjoy
teaching people about?
The fact that faithful humans
under Kingdom rule
will never grow old and die.
Unlike Adam and Eve
who threw away the privilege
to eat of “the tree of life”
and live forever,
faithful humans
will be granted life without end.
But now, sometimes when we discuss
this aspect of the good news,
people will bring up a couple of questions.
One, they may say:
“Is everlasting life really possible?
It just seems like it’s too good to be true.”
And two, “If I actually do live forever,
will life not eventually become boring?”
Well, let’s discuss
those two questions during our talk.
Now, first, how can we be sure
that everlasting life will become a reality?
The first and foremost reason
is because the God
“who cannot lie” has promised it.
At Revelation 21:4, Jehovah says
that “he will wipe out every tear . . . ,
and death will be no more.”
And then, in effect,
he publicly signs that promise
in the next verse, verse 5.
He says: “Write, for these words
are faithful and true.”
In other words: ‘Write it down
where everyone can see what I’ve promised,
‘and I certify it will happen.
I guarantee it will.’
But now, here’s a question:
What evidence do we have
that humans originally were designed
to live forever?
Well, think about the first book
of the Bible, the introductory book.
The first two humans were told
that if they ate
from “the tree of the knowledge
of good and bad,”
they would “certainly die.”
Now, what is implied?
If they didn’t eat
—they were faithful, obedient—
they would still be alive.
They would never die.
How old would Adam be now?
A little over 6,000 years old
and Eve a little bit younger.
How would they look?
Just as beautiful, handsome,
perfect as the day they were created.
What would be their health condition?
They would feel just as healthy and vibrant
as the day they were created.
Now, we know that they did sin
and they died as Jehovah said,
but his original purpose
was for them to live,
and that purpose will be fulfilled
as scriptures in the Bible certainly verify.
What’s another line of reasoning
that we were originally designed
to live forever?
Well, think about
the astounding capacity
of the human brain.
Now, scientists in recent years
are finding out more and more
that the brain has much more capacity
than they previously thought
even just a couple of years ago.
Here’s what a recent study
had to say about this.
It said, “The average adult human
brain’s memory capacity
“is estimated to be
2.5 million gigabytes.”
Now, if you want to compare that
with a smartphone,
the average smartphone is 150 gigabytes
—2.5 million gigabytes, the brain;
150, a smartphone.
No comparison.
In fact, that study went on
to say that “the brain
“would never run out of storage capacity
“because new memories
keep replacing old ones.
That happens
because new neural connections are formed.”
So the brain was obviously designed
to last forever
—never to fill up.
‘Don’t give me your name.
‘Don’t give me any more information.
My brain is full.
I can’t take it.’
No, it will never reach that point.
The brain can always take more.
Jehovah made it that way.
Do you want to get
a little, maybe, idea
about the capacity of the human brain?
Think about the tremendous download
that Jesus received at his baptism
—eons of time—
the memory of that all downloaded.
The human brain
that Jesus had was able to hold that.
It was a human brain
—perfect but a human brain.
The brain, obviously,
is a very, very big place
in a very, very small space, isn’t it?
That certainly is the case.
Now, here’s our intriguing question:
Why would Jehovah create us
with a super brain, super capacity,
if we’re only designed
to live 70 or 80 years?
It wouldn’t even make sense, would it?
That would be like making a smartphone
with a 2.5 million gigabyte capacity,
knowing that the user would only use
a few hundred gigabytes in his whole lifetime
or like building an automobile
with a million horsepower engine,
knowing the owner would only use
a few hundred horsepower during his life.
It wouldn’t make sense, would it?
The brain, obviously, loudly proclaims
that humans were designed to live forever.
Now let’s get one more line of reasoning
that we were designed to live forever.
Go to Ecclesiastes, please,
Ecclesiastes 3:11.
We’ll read the A part.
It says: “He [Jehovah]
“has made everything beautiful in its time.
“He has even put
“eternity
in their heart.”
Now, what does that mean?
Well, Jehovah has implanted
in the hearts of humans the desire,
the strong craving, to live eternally
—to live forever.
Now, think about it.
Isn’t it true that when death
lurks at a person’s door,
we see that they keep trying
to live, don’t they?
They will pursue doctors and medicine.
They will endure
all kinds of difficult treatments.
They want to live.
If a person was asked
to pick the day on which he wished to die,
most would keep pushing that day
farther and farther into the future,
wouldn’t they?
They want to keep living.
Throughout history,
humans have looked for the fountain of youth,
the medicine, an elixir,
or a potion to keep them living.
And the search certainly continues today.
But now, here’s our intriguing question:
Why would Jehovah create humans
with that strong desire
if they’re only meant to live 70 or 80 years?
It would actually be cruel, wouldn’t it?
It would be kind of like
(if you think of this illustration)
tying a dog on a 20-foot (6 m) chain
and putting a juicy steak 21 (6.5 m) feet
from the post where that chain was secured.
The dog could see that steak,
he could smell that steak,
but he couldn’t get a bite of it, could he?
That would be cruel.
And we know Jehovah
is definitely not a cruel God.
He’s a very loving heavenly Father.
Well, the foregoing
is just a few reasoning points
that humans were designed
and will live forever.
But now, let’s get that second question:
Why do some people reason
that living forever would be boring?
Well, some reason
that if everyone lives forever,
they’re all perfect,
so will they not all eventually become
carbon copies of each other
with variety being lost?
Well, that reasoning is not sound.
Our publication Is This Life All There Is?
addressed that shallow reasoning.
Here’s what it said.
It said: “Life in human perfection
“does not mean that everyone will be doing
all things equally well
“and with the same intense interest.
“What the Bible holds forth is the promise
of life without sickness and death.
“Healthy people today are not all alike,
“so why should anyone conclude
that bodily and mental perfection
“would make people
virtual copies of one another?
“People will still vary as to personality.
“They will have
varying preferences as to work,
“building, home decoration, landscaping,
“food and drink, entertainment,
the fine arts and [so forth].”
Additionally, think about this:
There is nothing
—absolutely nothing—boring
about Jehovah or any of his creation.
I personally can’t think of any two things
that are exactly identical,
even so-called identical twins
that you’re looking at here.
Notice their teeth are different.
Their freckle pattern is different;
their fingerprints are different;
their personalities are different.
They are certainly not identical.
In fact, there are no two dogs,
no two trees, no two tigers,
no two things I can think of
that are exactly alike.
Think about zebras for a moment.
Now, you look at this herd of zebras;
it looks like they’re basically
all striped the same.
No two zebras on the planet
are striped exactly the same.
And scientists even think
that this is how a baby zebra
recognizes and finds
his mother in a big herd.
He memorizes her unique striping pattern.
Isn’t it amazing what evolution can do?
If you believe that,
I’ve got a bridge to sell you.
It’s amazing what Jehovah has done!
Or think about snowflakes for a moment.
Out of the trillions of snowflakes
that fall in one large snowstorm,
no two are alike
—amazing!—
even though all of them are six-sided,
as you can see here.
They’re hexagonal, but no two are alike.
There’s nothing boring about Jehovah.
And you can be sure that humans
who are the work of the hands of a God
of that kind of infinite variety
will never become
carbon copies of one another.
Now, here’s another reason, though,
that people think (some of them)
that living forever would be boring.
They think that finally you would learn
everything there is to learn,
you would do everything there is to do,
and life would cease to be stimulating.
It would become drab and uninteresting.
Well, again, such reasoning is not sound.
First of all, to repeat something
that is pleasurable
is not boring, is it?
I mean, think about eating.
Most people eat
over a thousand meals in a year.
Does the man who is 40 years old
and has eaten over 40,000 meals
more bored than the 20-year-old
who’s eaten 20,000 meals?
No, that certainly is not the case.
Think about apples.
How many varieties of apples
have you personally tasted?
Maybe a couple of dozen:
Fuji, Gala, Rome, McIntosh,
Red and Golden Delicious,
Granny Smith, Jonathan, Winesap.
Maybe you’ve tried a couple dozen.
Studies show there are
more than 7,500 varieties of apples
grown on the earth.
If you sample one apple every day,
it would take you over 20 years
just to sample the varieties
that are grown on the earth today,
not speaking of new ones
that may be developed in the new world.
But it’ll take you over 20 years.
And you could go back 20 years later
and eat that first one you sampled.
And it’d be like a brand new variety,
wouldn’t it?
There’s nothing boring
about Jehovah’s creation.
Think about this too—another example:
If you take a wonderful vacation
in a beautiful part of the earth
and you go back into the same area
—you take another vacation that’s similar—
are you bored?
No.
Repeating pleasurable things is not boring.
And also remember
that you will never learn it all.
We will never do it all
—learn it or do it all.
Let’s go back to Ecclesiastes chapter 3.
And this time, let’s read the entire verse,
verse 11:
“He [Jehovah]
has made everything beautiful in its time.
“He has even put eternity in their heart;
“yet mankind [now look at that word]
“will never [never] find out the work
that the true God
has made from start to finish.”
So Jehovah says
that you’ll never learn it all.
You’ll never do it all.
How long would it take you
to learn to play all the musical instruments
that exist today,
to learn to play them well.
People spend their whole life
learning to play one instrument, don’t they?
When they die, they wish
they had more time to develop that skill.
What about new instruments,
even ones invented in the new world?
You brothers, imagine living
100 years with a beard,
100 years with just a mustache,
100 years with a goatee,
and 100 years clean-shaven.
Then go back and repeat that process
with different variations.
Imagine living for 100 years
in a beautiful house that you built
in the mountains (you and your family)
and then trading that house
for a house that a family
built on the seashore.
And you live in that house for 100 years.
And you continue the trading process
all around the planet Earth
until finally you get back
to that original house
that you built in the mountains,
but now it’s greatly improved
—remodeled and beautiful.
You live there another 100 years.
You start that process again.
I mean, just think about
some of these things.
Imagine learning
about all the millions of varieties of fish,
amphibians, mammals, birds, insects.
I read about one man who studied fleas
—22 years he spent studying fleas.
He is a flea expert.
He probably doesn’t know much
about anything else,
but he knows about fleas—22 years.
Imagine getting to know
and appreciate every human
among the billions
who will be living on the earth
—getting to know and appreciate
every one of them,
learning from their talents
and their experiences,
coming to regard them as a dear friend.
Here’s just one example: Wouldn’t you like
to spend some time with Noah’s wife?
I know that I’d like to know,
“What is your name?”
Right now, all we know
is Sister Noah, right?
“And how were you and your husband
“able to protect your sons
from the evil influence that was around you?
“What was it like
in those years before the Flood?
What was it like to come out of the ark?”
You could spend a lot of time
with Noah’s wife, couldn’t you?
Imagine learning
about all (each one)
of the more than 200 billion stars
in the Milky Way galaxy.
And then after you do that,
you could go to the next galaxy.
And they estimate there are more galaxies
than there are individual stars
in the Milky Way galaxy.
Now, when you think of that,
it gives you a headache, doesn’t it?
A lot of time could be used there.
Even more impossible,
imagine learning about Jehovah.
Throughout all eternity,
we will learn more and more
fascinating things about our God
and never begin to learn it all.
Well, we could go on and on,
but hopefully
we could use some of these points
if we ever encounter someone
who brings up that reasoning,
“Is it really possible to live forever?”
It’s not only possible,
but it’s guaranteed, isn’t it?
And it definitely will not be boring.
And hopefully all of us
appreciate even more
this marvelous prize
that Jehovah has invited humans
to reach out and take hold of.
Don’t miss it.
Reach out and take hold of the real life.
As always, you’ve given us
much to think about, Brother Steve
—many thought-provoking illustrations
as well.
Thank you so much.
At last year’s annual meeting,
we received a new brochure
Love People—Make Disciples.
And we embraced
a new approach to our ministry.
How’s it going for you?
The following video
will share a few experiences
related to our new approach to the ministry.
Let’s watch.
Did I enjoy memorizing presentations?
No.
I think I just got used
to memorizing presentations.
It was something we did since we were kids.
I found that it was kind of hit-or-miss
in the way that people responded.
Sometimes they responded well;
sometimes they didn’t
because maybe
that wasn’t a subject that interested them.
When I was feeling kind of unsure,
like what to do,
I’d probably just bail out with,
“Well, I don’t want to take
too much of your time right now,”
and “It was nice talking with you,”
and “Maybe some other time.”
I read and studied the brochure completely.
Honestly, I thought, ‘I got this.’
I didn’t.
When we first got this brochure,
I was very intimidated
because I was so used to the method
that we used before.
I was at the airport,
and the guy behind me
was complaining about the heat in Florida
and that the only reason why he was there
was because of a funeral.
I stopped him, and I said:
“Excuse me, I overheard you saying
that you were here for a funeral.
Who died?”
And he said, “My mother-in-law.”
Then I remembered that I had a magazine
about comfort for those who grieve,
and then I pulled the magazine out.
And the conversation was done.
In my mind, I said: ‘Wah-wah.
He ain’t going to talk no more.’
He didn’t.
I love our new approach
because people can see Jehovah’s people
as loving, caring people, not just preachers.
Because there’s no agenda necessarily
—you’re not trying to leave
a specific publication—
you feel more relaxed.
And oftentimes, the conversation
is naturally going to go there.
And sometimes it doesn’t lead
to opening up to a scripture.
It’s just talking
about their crazy situation at work
or something else going on in their family,
but it’s OK because I made a friend.
So this lady— I was about to pay,
and she had these . . .
. . . very colorful nails . . .
. . . long, colorful, decorated nails.
And it’s like she wanted me
to say something about her nails.
Yeah, she definitely wanted
to make a statement with them.
Yeah.
So I said, “Girl, your nails look good.”
And she was like,
“Oh, well, my nails have a meaning.”
And I’m like, “They do?”
And she’s like,
“Yeah, I want to support . . .
“. . . Domestic Violence . . .
. . . Domestic Violence Awareness Month.”
And I’m like, “Whoa!
You really care about people.”
Yeah.
We went to the website.
Yeah, we showed the website.
And the feature article for that month
was literally about domestic abuse,
and she got to see some Bible principles,
and she took that with her.
And we had a good conversation.
My wife and I were working together in a territory,
and we were walking back to our cars.
We saw a man across the street
on the block that was already done,
and we asked him
how his week had been going.
That led to us asking
what sort of work he did.
Just from that bit of interest
(he really appreciated it),
he loved what we had to say.
And so he actually just asked,
out of the blue, for a study
after we showed him
the Enjoy Life Forever!  brochure.
He’s attended many meetings
and been a good return visit.
When I entered a shop,
I started a conversation with the owner.
I asked, “How long
have you been doing this job?”
We talked about a lot of things.
Then naturally she started expressing
how she always had questions about life.
I then offered a Bible study,
and she accepted the offer with interest.
From then on,
we have been studying each week.
And about five months have passed,
but we continue to enjoy the discussions.
I was walking through a park one day,
and I saw a family,
and we had a beautiful conversation.
I asked a few questions,
and by listening to them,
I was really able to hear
the concerns of their heart
regarding the future for their daughter.
I offered a Bible study.
She’s been studying now every week,
and she attended the convention
for the first time this year.
And she’s been attending meetings.
By us showing them some love,
they might feel like
they might be worthy of more love
than just from us but from their Creator.
This has really helped me to view them
as a potential servant of Jehovah,
as one of our brothers and sisters.
I don’t want to be that obstacle.
Let me listen; let me be patient;
let me be humble
and wait to see what’s the right time.
But my goal is still the same:
We’re going to talk about my God, Jehovah
—just not so fast.
So may all of us continue
to show love for people
and continue to try to make disciples.
Earlier this year, we received the soundtrack
to last year’s convention drama,
Commit Your Way to Jehovah.
Have you found this
to be inspiring and encouraging?
Well, you’ll be happy to know
that the Governing Body
has approved of preparing
multiple soundtracks
for The Good News According to Jesus.
Would you like to hear a sample?
Let’s listen to some audio excerpts
of this soundtrack.
The music for
The Good News According to Jesus
is very important to the Governing Body,
and so we’re happy
to share these excerpts with you.
You’ll be happy to know
that the release of the first soundtrack
to gnj  (The Good News According to Jesus)
will be in the late spring
or early summer of 2025.
Well, the time has come
for the concluding part of our program,
and it’s a special treat.
That’s all I’m going to say.
Brother David Splane will now give the talk
“Give Jehovah Glory.”
Well, I don’t have to tell you
that many people today
are totally self-absorbed.
They spend a lot of time on the Internet
—a lot of time on social media
talking about themselves
and talking about their own accomplishments.
And that’s in contrast with Jehovah’s people
because Jehovah’s people
are concerned with giving God glory.
And this is in line
with what we read at Psalm 96:8.
Now, this is the only text
we’re going to read during this talk,
and I am going to have a look
at three words in the phrase
that we’re going to be reading.
So, please, let’s look it up.
I’ll give you a moment to find it.
If you’re like me, sometimes it takes
a little while to find things in the Bible.
Psalm 96:8
—and it’s just the first clause,
the first phrase,
that we’re going to look at.
It says: “Give Jehovah the glory
due his name.”
“Give Jehovah the glory due his name.”
Now, what were the circumstances
during which these words were first spoken?
They were first spoken
on a very happy occasion
—a special, spiritual occasion.
They were first spoken—
They’re part of a song,
and that song was first composed by David
when he was bringing the ark of the covenant
back to Jerusalem.
So you can imagine the joy
with which these words were spoken.
And finally, eventually,
that song became
part of the theocratic songbook
that the Israelites used
when they were praising Jehovah.
Now, we’re going to focus on three words
in this phrase that I just read
—“glory,” “due,” and “name.”
“Give Jehovah the glory
due his name.”
Now, when you think of the word “glory,”
what comes to your mind?
If you’re like me,
you probably think of a blinding light,
a light that’s so intense
that you have to shield your eyes.
And you might think
of the words of the apostle John
when he wrote that “God is light.”
And so you might ask yourself,
‘How could an imperfect person like me
give God glory?’
Well, it all comes together
when we appreciate
what the Scriptures mean by “glory.”
Now, let’s be really simple.
“Glory” in the Scriptures means
“anything that makes someone
or something impressive.”
I’m going to repeat that.
In the Scriptures, “glory” means
“anything that makes someone
or something impressive.”
Now, with that simple definition in mind,
we realize that we can bring glory to God
in our preaching work
when we tell others how wonderful Jehovah is,
how impressive he is.
We have many reasons to boast in our God.
Our God is merciful and compassionate.
Our God is empathetic.
When we feel hurt, he feels hurt.
Our God is humble.
He shows concern for widows and orphans
and others
who are often neglected by society.
We also bring glory to Jehovah
when we give him credit
for our accomplishments.
David did that.
Remember what David said?
“By God’s power I can scale a wall.”
But we can give glory to God
without saying a word.
Think of the heavens.
What does the Bible say about the heavens?
“There is no speech,
“and there are no words;
their voice is not heard.”
And yet, what does the psalm continue to say?
“The heavens are declaring the glory of God.”
We can’t help but be impressed
by Jehovah’s creation.
Well, so much for glory.
“Give Jehovah the glory
due [due] his name.”
Now, we give someone his due
when we give him what’s rightfully his.
And Jehovah has an absolute right
to receive glory from men.
We’re reminded of what the 24 elders said
as recorded at Revelation 4:11.
They said: “You are worthy, Jehovah our God,
to receive the glory.”
“Give Jehovah the glory due his name.”
What about God’s name?
Well, we were thrilled when we
first learned that God has a name.
And that prompted some of us
to study the Bible and come into the truth.
Now, if learning that God has a name
had that effect on you,
don’t you think that it could also have
that effect on people in your territory?
Have you asked people
in your territory recently,
“Would you like to see
God’s name in the Bible?”
or “Have you ever seen
That could lead to some
very interesting discussions.
A missionary is serving in a country
where most of the people believe in God.
They’re either Catholic or Muslim,
but they all believe in God.
They don’t know much about Him,
but I like the way he reasons with them.
He says: “When you want
to become friends with someone,
“the first thing you do
is introduce yourself.
“You tell him your name, he tells you his,
and you become friends.
“Well, we all want to be friends of God.
“So a good first step
is to find out his name.”
And then he reads God’s name in the Bible.
We give God glory
when we defend his name and his reputation.
But what does the name mean?
Well, many scholars say
it means “He Causes to Become.”
And we know that Jehovah can cause us
to become whatever he wants us to be.
So think about what we heard earlier
in this program today.
If he wants us to become a missionary,
if he wants us to work in construction,
if he wants us to be a special pioneer
or to serve at Bethel,
then Jehovah can give us the strength
and he can give us the ability to do that.
And all we have to do
is put our trust in him.
Now, like the heavens,
we can sometimes give God glory
without saying a word.
How?
By our fine conduct.
How many unbelievers
have come into the truth,
sometimes after being
violently opposed for years,
because of the conduct
of their Christian mate and children?
How many unbelievers have been impressed
by the way we take care of one another
and others when disaster strikes?
So we think about the words of Jesus
in the Sermon on the Mount.
When people ‘see our fine works,
they give glory to our Father in heaven.’
Jehovah is also glorified when his servants
respond to the leading of his spirit
in their Christian life,
when they become more humble,
more loving, more trustworthy.
Now, if you’re an appointed man,
have the elders found you
to be more reasonable,
more tactful,
more yielding over the years?
When they see those changes in us,
our brothers and sisters
don’t fail to give credit to Jehovah God,
and Jehovah God is praised.
So in 2025,
let’s give serious thought
to ways we can give God glory.
And to remind us, those words,
the words of Psalm 96:8,
are going to be posted
in our Kingdom Halls as our yeartext.
So, what’s the yeartext again?
Psalm 96:8:
“Give Jehovah the glory due his name.”
[Applause]
Now, there’s a poem
entitled “Give Jehovah Glory.”
And I’m going to read it to you.
We don’t usually (we don’t) do poetry
in our publications
because it’s too hard to translate,
but this is a good one,
and I’m going to read it to you.
It’s entitled “Give Jehovah Glory.”
“Who is like you, O Jehovah,
“High on your heavenly throne?
“How could I ever repay you
“For all of the love you have shown?
“When I look up to the heavens,
“Power and glory I see.
“Who then am I, O Jehovah,
“That you would show favor to me?
“My life is yours, O Jehovah.
“May all I do bring you praise.
“Gladly I’ll speak of your goodness
“And tell of your glorious ways.
“Serving you, Great God, Jehovah,
“Fills me with honor and pride.
“You are my strength and my glory.
“Forever may you be my Guide.
“Oceans and valleys below me,
“Sun, moon, and stars up above
“Fill me with joy and with wonder
“And show me your unending love.
“Majesty, wisdom, and beauty:
“These are the things that I see.
“How could I not give you glory
For making it all come to be?”
[Applause]
Those words were composed
for a very happy occasion,
a spiritual occasion.
They’re part of a song,
an original song
that was composed
specially for this annual meeting.
And guess what?
Guess what?
We are going to sing that song
at the conclusion of this meeting.
I said to the Governing Body, “Are you sure?”
And they said, “Oh, yes!”
They have tremendous confidence
in your musical ability.
Now, just so you know,
the Governing Body
has decided that from now on
a new original song based on the yeartext
is going to be featured
at each annual meeting.
[Applause]
The brothers in music services
are busy working on the one for 2026.
Now, during the past two months,
the music team
and Translation Services all around the world
have been working feverishly to translate,
record, and mix the song.
And as a result of their efforts,
when this talk is released on October 14,
the song will be released simultaneously
with the English
in over 400 languages.
So let’s see how those words sound
when they’re put to music.
Now, remember, we’re going to be singing
this song at the conclusion of the meeting,
and we don’t want anybody just moving
the lips with no sound coming out.
There is a reason why we call it a song.
So pay attention and enjoy
“Give Jehovah Glory.”
You sure are an encouraging group
with all of this applause!
You know that’s why we’re going overtime.
Well, now,
if you’re listening in in your room,
when the time comes to sing,
be sure to join in.
Remember, the Lord is listening,
so don’t think that just because you’re
in private that you shouldn’t join in.
Now, we all want to join in,
and this is a way
we can give additional glory to Jehovah.
So in 2025,
let’s pay special attention
to ways we can give God glory.
He certainly is worthy.
We pray that this program
has strengthened your faith
and will encourage each one of us
to remain steadfast in Jehovah’s service
and have
“plenty to do in the work of the Lord.”
Be assured that the Governing Body
loves each of you,
and we are truly interested
in your everlasting welfare
as one of Jehovah’s precious sheep.
What a joy to share this beautiful program
with all of you!
Let’s conclude
with this month’s video postcard,
which takes us to Armenia.
Armenia lies east of Türkiye
and south of the Caucasus mountain range.
Yerevan, its capital,
enjoys a magnificent view
of Mount Ararat, where,
according to tradition,
Noah’s ark came to rest.
Armenia is even more mountainous
than Switzerland with deep river valleys,
forests, and extinct volcanoes.
More than 3,000 plant species thrive
in this small country.
Farms produce a variety of crops:
pomegranates,
cherries, peaches,
and 50 different types of apricots,
which are sometimes called Armenian apples.
Jehovah’s Witnesses have been active
in Armenia since 1975,
when the country was still part
of the Soviet Union.
For many years,
congregation meetings were held
in homes and it was not possible
to hold assemblies or conventions here.
But beginning in 1989,
Witnesses in Armenia were invited
to attend international conventions
in other countries,
including this one in Kyiv, Ukraine,
in 1993.
That same year, authorities began imprisoning
our brothers for their neutrality.
Over the next 20 years,
more than 500 brothers
were sentenced to prison terms
of up to three years.
But in 2011,
the European Court of Human Rights
upheld the right to refuse military service
based on conscientious objection.
This was the first time
that the court recognized
that conscientious objection
to military service
based on one’s religious beliefs
should be protected
under the right of freedom of thought,
conscience, and religion.
By November 2013,
all imprisoned brothers had been released.
Today, more than 11,000 publishers
and 2,480 pioneers
serve in Armenia.
They preach in seven languages,
including Persian, Kurdish Kurmanji,
Hindi, and Russian Sign Language.
On December 7, 1988,
an earthquake devastated
Armenia’s northern region.
It claimed some 25,000 lives
and left half a million people homeless.
The quake destroyed the town of Spitak,
which has since recovered,
though some evidence of the quake remains.
Through it all, our brothers
and sisters continued diligently
to share the good news.
The 44 publishers
and 18 regular pioneers
in the Spitak Congregation
send us their warm love and greetings.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!